thank you so much, Chris. and it is truly a great honor to have the opportunity to to this stage twice ; I
am extremely grateful. I have been blown away by this conference, and I want to thank all of you for the many nice
comments about what I had to say the other night. and I say that sincerely, because I need that. put yourselves in my
position. I flew on Air Force Two for eight years. now I have to take off my shoes or boots to get on
an airplane! I will tell you one quick story to illustrate what that is been like for tonnes me. it is a true
story %-% every bit of this is true. soon after Tipper and I left the %-% White House %-% we were driving from
our home in Nashville to a little farm we have 50 miles east of Nashville. driving ourselves. I know it sounds like a
little thing to you, but %-% I looked in the rear - view mirror and all of a sudden it just hit me.
there was no motorcade back there. you have heard of phantom limb pain? this was a rented Ford Taurus. it was dinnertime, and
we started looking for a place to eat. we were on I - 40. we got to Exit 238, Lebanon, Tennessee. amed we
got off the exit, we found a Shoney 's restaurant. low - cost family restaurant chain, for those of you who do not
know it. we Tomwent in and sat down at the booth, and the waitress came over, made a big commotion over Tipper. she
took our order, and then went to the Kosocouple in the booth next to us, and she lowered her voice so much, I
had to really strain to hear what she was saying. and she said" Yes, that is former Vice President Al Gore and his
wife, Tipper." and the man said," He is come down a long way, has not he?" there is been kind of a series
of epiphanies. the very next day, continuing the totally true story, I got on a G - V to fly to Africa to
make a speech in Nigeria, in the city of Lagos, on the topic of energy. and I began the speech by telling them
the story of what had just happened the day before in Nashville. and I told it pretty much the same way I have
just shared it with you : Tipper and I were driving ourselves, Shoney 's, low - cost family restaurant chain, what the man
said %-% they laughed. I gave my speech, then went back out to the airport to fly back home. I fell asleep on
the plane until, during the middle of the night, we landed on the Azores Islands for refueling. I woke up, they opened the
door, selecwent out to get some fresh air, and I looked, and there was a man running across the runway. and he was
waving a piece of paper, and he was yelling," Call Washington! call Washington!" and I thought to myself, in the middle of the
night, in the middle of the Atlantic, what in the world could be wrong in Washington? then I remembered it could be a
bunch frustrated things. was that my staff was extremely upset because one the wire services in Nigeria had already written a story about
my speech, and it had already been printed in cities all across the United States of America. it was printed in Monterey, I
checked. three days later, I got a nice, long, handwritten letter from my friend and partner and colleague Bill Clinton, saying," Congratulations on
the new restaurant, Al!" we like to celebrate each other 's successes LDlife. I was going to talk about information ecology. but I
was thinking that, since I plan to make a lifelong habit of coming back to TED, that maybe I could talk about that
another time. Chris Anderson : it is a deal! al Gore : I want to focus on what many of you have said
you would like me to elaborate on : what can you do about the climate crisis? I want to start with a couple
of %-% I am going to show some new images, and I am going to recapitulate just four or five. now, the slide
show. I update the slide show every time I give it. I add new images, Postbecause I learn more about it every time
I give it. it is like beach - combing, you know? every time the tide comes in and out, you find some more
shells. just in the last two days, we got the new temperature records in January. this is just for the United States of
America. historical average for Januarys is 31 degrees ; last month was 39 point 5 degrees. now, I know that you wanted some
more bad news about the environment %-% I am kidding. but these are the recapitulation slides, and then I am going to go
into new material about what you can do. but I wanted to elaborate on a couple of these. first of all, this is
where we are projected to go with the U.S. contribution to global warming, under business as usual. efficiency in end racial - use
electricity and end - use of all energy is the low - hanging fruit. efficiency and conservation %-% it is not a cost
; it is a profit. the sign is wrong. it is not negative ; it is positive. these are investments that pay for
themselves. but they are also very effective in deflecting our path. cars and trucks %-% I talked about that in the slideshow, but
I want you to put it in perspective. it is an easy, visible target of concern %-% and it should be %-% but
there is more global warming pollution that comes from buildings than from cars and trucks. cars and trucks are very significant, and we
have the lowest standards in the world. and so we should address that. but it is part of the puzzle. other transportation efficiency
is as important as cars and trucks. renewables at the current levels of technological efficiency can make this much difference. and with what
Vinod, and John Doerr and others, many of you here %-% there are a lot of people directly involved in this %-% this
wedge is going to grow much more rapidly than the current projection shows it. oloCapture and Sequestration %-% that is what CCS for
%-% is likely to become the killer app that will enable us to continue to use fossil fuels in a way that is
safe. not quite there yet. OK. now, what can you do? reduce Survey in your home. most of these expenditures are also profitable.
insulation, better design. buy green electricity where you can. I mentioned automobiles %-% buy a hybrid. use light rail. figure out some of
the other options that are much better. it is important. be a green consumer. you have choices with everything you buy, between things
that have a harsh effect, or a much less harsh effect on the global climate crisis. make a decision to live a carbon
- neutral life. those of you who are good at branding, I would love to get your advice and help on how to
say this in a way that connects with the most people. 
